# Markov Chain and Approximate Bayesian Computation (MC-ABC rejection)

M.S Thesis

Coronavirus (COVID-19) is a highly infectious agent that causes fatal respiratory illnesses, which is of great global public health concern. There is an increasing effort to prevent, reduce transmission to front-line healthcare workers. However, there is growing concern regarding the shortage in the supply chain of critical one-time-use personal and protective equipment (PPE). Contingency planning for PPE stock shortage is essential. The number of hospitalizations, critical-care shifts, recovering, and death of individuals every time follows the discrete-time Markov process. In this paper, a 4-state model discrete-time Markov chain model is applied to the data from all across the USA to study the dynamics of the hospitalizations that would help hospitals better project PPE needs daily. We estimate the hospitalization, critical care ward, recovery, and death rates respectively using the obtained posterior distribution based on an Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC) framework. The transition probability obtained from the model provides a convenient approach to estimate the rate of transition of patients in the hospital that would help us calculate the increasing demand for PPE. The proposed Markov model is entirely data-driven based on epidemiologic data, which produces reasonable and intuitive estimates and acts as a useful tool for estimating the demand surge of PPE in hospitals due to coronavirus and helps them efficiently plan their inventory.
 
Keywords: COVID 19, Personal protective equipment (PPE), Discrete-Time Markov Chain (DTMC), Transition probability, Approximate Bayesian Computation (ABC)

